# Cryptographic Computing for Clean Rooms (C3R)

The Cryptographic Computing for Clean Rooms (C3R) encryption client and software development kit (SDK) provide client-side tooling which allows users to participate in AWS Clean Rooms collaborations leveraging cryptographic computing by pre- and post-processing data.

The [AWS Clean Rooms documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/clean-rooms) contains detailed information regarding how to use the C3R encryption client in conjunction with an AWS Clean Rooms collaboration.

NOTICE: This project is released as open source under the Apache 2.0 license but is only intended for use with AWS Clean Rooms. Any other use cases may result in errors or inconsistent results.

## Getting Started

### Downloading Releases

The C3R encryption client command line interface and related JARs can be downloaded from the [Releases](https://github.com/aws/c3r/releases) section of this repository. The SDK artifacts are also available on Maven's central repository.

### System Requirements

1. Java Runtime Environment version 11 or newer.

2. Enough disk storage to hold cleartext data, temporary files, and the encrypted output. See the AWS Clean Rooms documentation for details on how settings affect storage needs.

### Supported Data Formats

Currently CSV and Parquet file formats are supported. Parquet support is limited (see the FAQ and AWS Clean Rooms documentation for details).

The core functionality of the C3R encryption client is format agnostic; the SDK can be used for any format by implementing an appropriate [RowReader](https://github.com/aws/c3r/blob/main/c3r-sdk-core/src/main/java/com/amazonaws/c3r/io/RowReader.java) and [RowWriter](https://github.com/aws/c3r/blob/main/c3r-sdk-core/src/main/java/com/amazonaws/c3r/io/RowWriter.java).

### C3R CLI Modes of Operation

The C3R encryption client is an executable JAR with a command line interface (CLI). It has several modes of operation which are described in the usage help message, e.g.:

```
  schema   Generate an encryption schema for a tabular file.
  encrypt  Encrypt tabular file content for use in a secure collaboration.
  decrypt  Decrypt tabular file content derived from a secure collaboration.
```

These modes are briefly described in the subsequent portions of this README.

### C3R with named AWS CLI profiles and regions

Modes which make API calls to AWS services feature optional `--profile` and `--region` flags, allowing for convenient selection of an AWS CLI named profile and AWS region respectively.


### C3R `schema` mode: specifying how data should be encrypted

For the C3R encryption client to encrypt a tabular file for a collaboration, it must have a corresponding schema file specifying how the encrypted output should be derived from the input.

The C3R encryption client can help generate schema files for an `INPUT` file using the `schema` command. E.g.,

```
$ java -jar c3r-cli.jar schema --interactive INPUT
```

See the "Generate an encryption schema for a tabular file" section of the AWS Clean Rooms documentation for more information.

### C3R `encrypt` mode: encrypting data for a collaboration

Given the following:

1. a tabular `INPUT` file,

2. a corresponding `SCHEMA` file,

3. a collaboration `COLLABORATION_ID` in the form of a UUID, and

4. an environment variable `C3R_SHARED_SECRET` containing a Base64-encoded 256-bit secret. See the "Preparing encrypted data tables" section in [AWS Clean Rooms documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/clean-rooms/latest/userguide/prepare-encrypted-data.html#create-SSK) for details on how to generate the shared secret key.


An encrypted `OUTPUT` file can be generated by running the C3R encryption client at the command line as follows:

```
$ java -jar c3r-cli.jar encrypt INPUT \
  --schema=SCHEMA \
  --id=COLLABORATION_ID \
  --output=OUTPUT
```

See the "Encrypt data" section of the AWS Clean Rooms documentation for more information.

### C3R `decrypt` mode: decrypting results from a collaboration

Once queries have been executed on encrypted data in an AWS Clean Rooms collaboration, that encrypted query results `INPUT` file can be decrypted generating a cleartext `OUTPUT` file using the same Base64-encoded 256-bit secret stored in the `C3R_SHARED_SECRET` environment variable, and `COLLABORATION_ID` as follows:

```
$ java -jar c3r-cli.jar decrypt INPUT \
  --id=COLLABORATION_ID \
  --output=OUTPUT
```

See the "Decrypting data tables with the C3R encryption client" section of the AWS Clean Rooms documentation for more information.

### SDK Usage Examples

SDK usage examples are available in the SDK packages' `src/examples` directories.

## General Security Notes

The following is a high level description of some security concerns to keep in mind when using the C3R encryption client to encrypt data.

### Trusted Computing Environment

The shared secret key and data-to-be-encrypted is by default consumed directly from disk by the C3R encryption client on a user’s machine. It is, therefore, left to users to take any and all necessary precautions to ensure those security concerns beyond what the C3R is capable of enforcing are met. For example:

1. the machine running the C3R encryption client meets the user’s needs as a trusted computing platform,

2. the C3R encryption client is run in a minimally privileged manner and not exposed to untrusted data/networks/etc., and

3. any post-encryption cleanup/wiping of keys and/or data is performed as needed on the system post encryption.

### Temporary Files

When encrypting a source file, the C3R encryption client will create temporary files on disk. These files will be deleted when the C3R encryption client finishes generating the encrypted output. Unexpected termination of the C3R encryption client execution may prevent the C3R encryption client or JVM from deleting these files, allowing them to persist on disk. These temporary files will have all columns of type `fingerprint` or `sealed` encrypted, but some additional privacy-enhancing post-processing may not have been completed. By default, the C3R encryption client will utilize the host operating system’s temporary directory for these temporary files. If a user prefers an explicit location for such files, the optional `--tempDir=DIR` flag can specify a different location to create such files.


## Frequently Asked Questions

### How can I encrypt non-string values?
Currently only string values are supported for sealed and fingerprint columns.

For CSV files, the C3R encryption client treats all values simply as UTF-8 encoded text and makes no attempt to interpret them differently prior to encryption.

For Parquet files, an error will be raised if a non-string column is used for a sealed or fingerprint column.

### What Parquet data types are supported?
The C3R encryption client can process any non-complex (i.e., primitive) data in a Parquet file, but only string columns may be used for sealed or fingerprint columns.

### Does the C3R encryption client implement any non-standard cryptography?

The C3R encryption client uses only NIST-standardized algorithms and-- with one exception-- only by calling their implementation in the Java standard cryptographic library. The sole exception is that the client has its own implementation of HKDF (from RFC5869), but using MAC algorithms from the Java standard cryptographic library.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 License.

